1. The Purpose of the Test Plan
The purpose of the Test Plan is to describe the goal, approach and scope of testing activities provided while executing Test Exercise.

2. Application under test
	Application under test is a web application “NSS-TODO List”, current version - v1.1
Application is available via the URL - http://amadeus.maclab.org/_demo/nss-todo-1.1/#

3. Goals
	The goal is to determine high priority functional  test cases, to create automated scripts and prepare API test cases for the specified scenarios

4. Approach
4.1 Functional test cases
	Due to absence of requirements, functional test cases will be determine while exploratory testing the application under test. Positive high priority test cases will be designed and automated.
4.2 Automated scripts
	Automated scripts will be created using JUnit test framework
4.3 API test cases
	TODO



















Test Cases
1. Test case #1
1.1 Create new task without due date and category
1.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Enter ‘Test task 1’ into the ‘New task name’ input field
Click ‘Add’ button
	1.3 Expected result - new task with ‘Test task 1’ title is displayed in the task grid followed by the ‘(None)’ as a Due date.

2. Test case #2
	2.1 Create new task with due date, without category (future date).
	2.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Enter ‘Test task 2.1’ into the ‘New task name’ input field
Select due date (future) using datepicker dropdowns
Click ‘Add’ button
	2.3 Expected result - new task with ‘Test task 2’ title is displayed in the task grid followed by the Due date in format ‘(dd/mm/year)’

2. Test case #2.1
	2.1.1 Create new task with due date, without category (past date).
	2.1.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Enter ‘Test task 2’ into the ‘New task name’ input field
Select due date (past) using datepicker dropdowns
Click ‘Add’ button
	2.1.3 Expected result - new task with ‘Test task 2.1’ title is displayed in the task grid followed by the Due date in format ‘(dd/mm/year)’. The task is displayed in the red color.

3. Test case #3
	3.1 Create new task with due date and category (future date)
	3.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Enter ‘Test task 3’ into the ‘New task name’ input field
Select due date (future) using datepicker dropdowns
Select category using category dropdown
Click ‘Add’ button
	3.3 Expected result - new task with ‘Test task 3’ title is displayed in the task grid followed by the Due date in format ‘(dd/mm/yy)’.
The task is displayed in the color of selected category.

3.1. Test case #3.1
	3.1.1 Create new task with due date and category (past date)
	3.1.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Enter ‘Test task 3.1’ into the ‘New task name’ input field
Select due date (past) using datepicker dropdowns
Select category using category dropdown
Click ‘Add’ button
	3.1.3 Expected result - new task with ‘Test task 3.1’ title is displayed in the task grid followed by the Due date in format ‘(dd/mm/yy)’ and the Category in format (category) in category color.
The task is displayed in the red color.

4.Test case #4
	4.1 Mark task as completed
	4.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Select ‘Test task 1’ checkbox
Click ‘Complete’ button
	4.3 Expected result - ‘Test task 1’ is marked as completed



5.Test case #5
	5.1 Remove task from the list
	5.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Select ‘Test task 2’ checkbox
Click ‘Remove’ button
	5.3 Expected result - ‘Test task 2’ is removed from the task grid

6.Test case #6
	6.1 Edit task
	6.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Click on the area to the left of the ‘Test task 6’ checkbox
In the new window, change the task name to the ‘Test task 6 edited’
Change the due date (note the date)
Change the category (note the category)
Click the ‘Update” button
	6.3Expected result - task with ‘Test task 6 edited’ title is displayed in the task grid instead of the ‘Test task 6’, followed by the new Due date and new category 

7. Test case #7
7.1 Create new category without assigned color
7.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Enter ‘Test category 1’ into the ‘New category name’ input field
Click ‘Add category’ button
	7.3 Expected result - new category with ‘Test category 1’ title is displayed in the categories list. Category title is displayed in black color. ‘Test category 1’ is displayed in the category dropdown

8. Test case #8
8.1 Create new category with assigned color
8.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Enter ‘Test category 2’ into the ‘New category name’ input field
Select color from the color dropdown (Note the color)
Click ‘Add category’ button
	8.3 Expected result - new category with ‘Test category 2’ title is displayed in the categories list. Category title is displayed in the selected color. ‘Test category 2’ is displayed in the category dropdown

9. Test case #9
9.1 Remove category, confirm removing
9.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Click the  ‘Test category 2’ name in the categories list
Confirm removing by selecting the ‘Yes’ option in the confirm removing window
	9.3 Expected result - ‘Test category 2’ is not displayed in the categories list. ‘Test category 2’ is not displayed in the category dropdown

10. Test case #10
10.1 Remove category, cancel confirm removing
10.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Click the  ‘Test category 1’ name in the categories list
Do not confirm removing by selecting the ‘Nevermind’ option in the confirm removing window
	10.3 Expected result - ‘Test category 1’  is displayed in the categories list. ‘Test category 1’ is displayed in the category dropdown

11. Test case #11
11.1 Toggle all option
11.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Select ‘Toggle all’ checkbox
	11.3 Expected result - all of the tasks checkboxes  in the task grid are selected

12. Test case #12
12.1 Hide Advanced options
12.2 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Click the ‘Advanced’ option
	12.3 Expected result - following fields are hidden upons selection the ‘Advanced’ option:
Category dropdown
Datepicker dropdowns
New category name inputfield
New category colorpicker
Add category button
	
13. Test case #13
13.1 Display Advanced options
	13.2 Prerequisites - Advanced options are hidden
13.3 Test steps
Navigate to the home page
Click the ‘Advanced’ option
	13.4 Expected result - following fields are displayed upons selection the ‘Advanced’ option:
Category dropdown
Datepicker dropdowns
New category name inputfield
New category colorpicker
Add category button

